                        POVLAB 3D MODELLER FOR POV-RAY
                    General Legal and License Information
           Copyright 1994-1998 DENIS OLIVIER. All rights reserved.
                                 January 1999

       This notice must accompany all official or custom povlab files.
                      It may not be removed or modified.
             This information pertains to all use of the package
                                  worldwide.



DISCLAIMER
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

THIS SOFTWARE IS COPYRIGHT 1994-1998 by DENIS OLIVIER. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS-IS, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS,
IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

ALTHOUGH THE AUTHORS HAVE ATTEMPTED TO FIND AND CORRECT ANY BUGS IN THE PACKAGE, 
IN NO EVENT SHALL DENIS OLIVIER BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,INCIDENTAL, 
CONSEQUENTIAL OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER 
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN 
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

THE AUTHORS ARE UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE SERVICE, CORRECTIONS, OR UPGRADES 
TO THIS PACKAGE.




GENERAL LICENSE AGREEMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This software is provided as FREEWARE, and cannot be sold. This software cannot
be bundled with any commercial package without express written permission from
DENIS OLIVIER as well as the utilisation of the code in any commercial package.

THE CODE NEED TO BE USED ONLY FOR FREEWARE PROGRAMS, AND ALL SOURCES OR
EXTRACTS FROM POVLAB SOURCE CODE NEED TO BE NOTICED, REFERENCED BY A LINK, A
NAME, OR AN EMAIL.

ONLY POVLAB VERSIONS THAT WILL BE ON HTTP://WWW.POVLAB.ORG SITE ARE OFFICIALS.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and
related documentation.

All brands and product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their
respective holders.

This document pertains to the use and distribution of the POVLAB 3D Modeller. It 
applies to all POVLAB program source files, executable (binary) files, scene 
files, documentation files, help file, bitmaps and INI files contained in 
official POVLAB package.  All of these are referred to here as "the software". 
The POVLAB Authors reserves the right to revise these rules in future versions 
and to make additional rules to address new circumstances at any time.

Although it is distributed as freeware, it is NOT PUBLIC DOMAIN.

The copyrighted package may ONLY be distributed and/or modified according to the 
license granted herein.  The spirit of the license is to promote POVLAB as a 
standard modeller, provide the full POVLAB package freely to as many users as 
possible, prevent POVLAB users and developers from being taken advantage of, 
enhance the life quality of those who come in contact with POVLAB. This license 
was created so these goals could be realized. You are legally bound to follow 
these rules, but we hope you will follow them as a matter of ethics, rather than 
fear of litigation.




USAGE PROVISIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission is granted to the user to use the software and associated files in 
this package to create and render images. The use of this software for the 
purpose of creating images is completely free. The creator of a scene file and 
the image created from the scene file, retains all rights to the image and scene 
file they created and may use them for any purpose commercial or non-commercial.

The user is also granted the right to use the scenes files, fonts, bitmaps, and 
include files distributed in sub-directories in their own scenes. Such 
permission does not extend to files in the SCENE directory or all 
sub-directories. The SCENE files are for your enjoyment and education but may 
not be the basis of any derivative works.




GENERAL RULES FOR ALL DISTRIBUTION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The permission to distribute this package under certain very specific conditions 
is granted in advance, provided that the following conditions are met.

These archives must not be re-archived using a different method without the 
explicit permission of the POVLAB Authors.  You may rename the archives only to 
meet the file name conventions of your system or to avoid file name duplications 
but we ask that you try to keep file names as similar to the originals as 
possible.  (For example: POVLAB40.ZIP to POVLAB.ZIP)

Ready-to-run unarchived distribution on CD-ROM is also permitted if the files 
are arranged in the POVLAB standard directory or folder structure as though it 
had been properly installed on a hard disk.

You must distribute a FULL PACKAGE of files as described in the next section.  
No portion of this package may be separated from the package and distributed 
separately other than under the conditions specified in the provisions given 
below.

Non-commercial distribution in which no money or compensation is charged (such 
as a user copying the software for a personal friend or colleague) is permitted 
with no other restrictions.

Teachers and educational institutions may also distribute the material to 
students for free or they may charge minimal copying costs if the software is to 
be used in a course.




DEFINITION OF "FULL PACKAGE"
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

A "full package" contains an executable program, documentation, and sample 
scenes.

Distributors must distribute a full package.

This software may ONLY be bundled with other software packages according to the 
conditions specified in the provisions below.




CONDITIONS FOR SHAREWARE/FREEWARE DISTRIBUTION COMPANIES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Shareware and freeware distribution companies may distribute the software 
included in software-only compilations using media such as, but not limited to, 
floppy disk, CD-ROM, tape backup, optical disks, hard disks, or memory cards. 
This section only applies to distributors of collected programs. Anyone wishing 
to bundle the package with a shareware product must use the commercial bundling 
rules.




CONDITIONS FOR ON-LINE SERVICES AND BBS'S INCLUDING INTERNET
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

On-line services, BBS's and internet sites may distribute the POVLAB 3D modeller 
software under the conditions in this section. Sites which allow users to run 
POVLAB from remote locations must use separate provisions in the section below.

The archives must all be easily available on the service and should be grouped 
together in a similar on-line area.

It is strongly requested that sites remove prior versions of POVLAB to avoid 
user confusion and simplify or minimize the support efforts.

The site may only charge standard usage rates for the downloading of this 
software. A premium may not be charged for this package. I.E. CompuServe or 
America On-Line may make these archives available to their users, but they may 
only charge regular usage rates for the time required to download.




PERMITTED MODIFICATION AND CUSTOM VERSIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Although the full source code for POVLAB is distributed, there are strict rules 
for the use of the source code. The source distribution is provided to :

- promote the porting of POVLAB to hardware and operating systems which the 
POVLAB Authors cannot support.

- promote experimentation and development of new features to the core code which 
might eventually be incorporated into the official version.

- provide insight into the inner workings of the program for educational 
purposes.

These license provisions have been established to promote the growth of POVLAB 
and prevent difficulties for users and developers alike. Please follow them 
carefully for the benefit of all concerned when creating a custom version.

The user is granted the privilege to modify and compile the source code for 
their own personal use in any fashion they see fit. What you do with the 
software in your own home is your business.

However severe restrictions are imposed if the user wishes to distribute a 
modified version of the software, documentation or other parts of the package 
(here after referred to as a "custom version"). You must follow the provisions 
given below. This includes any translation of the documentation into other 
languages or other file formats.

A "custom version" is defined as a fully functional version of POVLAB with all 
existing features intact. ANY OTHER USE OF ANY POVLAB SOURCE CODE IS EXPRESSLY 
PROHIBITED. The POVLAB Authors does not license source code for any use outside 
POVLAB. No portion of the POVLAB source code may be incorporated into another 
program unless it is clearly a custom version of POVLAB that includes all of the 
basic functions of POVLAB.

All executables, documentation, modified files and descriptions of the same must 
clearly identify themselves as a modified and unofficial version of POVLAB. Any 
attempt to obscure the fact that the user is running POVLAB or to obscure that 
this is an unofficial version expressly prohibited.

POVLAB may not be linked into other software either at compile time using an 
object code linker nor at run-time as a DLL, ActiveX, or other system. Such 
linkage can tend to blur the end user's perception of which program provides 
which functions and thus qualifies as an attempt to obscure what is running.

To allow POVLAB to communicate with outside programs, the official versions of 
POVLAB include several internal communication "hooks" for it to call other 
tasks, often called an Application Programming Interface, or API. For example: 
the generic part of POVLAB provides operating system shell-out API commands. 
Modification to these APIs or other officially supported communication 
mechanisms to increase functionality beyond that of the official version IS 
EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.




CONDITIONS FOR DISTRIBUTION OF CUSTOM VERSIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

If your re-compiled version meets all requirements for custom versions listed 
above, the following conditions apply to its distribution:

You must provide all POVLAB support for all users who use your custom version. 
You must provide information so that user may contact you for support for your 
custom version. The POVLAB authors is not obligated to provide you or your users 
any technical support.

Include contact information in the in the source code and insure that the 
program prominently displays this information. Display all copyright notices and 
credit screens for the official version.

Custom versions may only be distributed as freeware. You must make all of your 
modifications to POVLAB freely and publicly available with FULL SOURCE CODE to 
the modified portions of POVLAB and must freely distribute full source to any 
new parts of the custom version. The goal is that users must be able to 
re-compile the program themselves using readily available compilers and run-time 
libraries and to be able to further improve the program with their own 
modifications.

You must provide documentation for any and all modifications that you have made 
to the program that you are distributing. Include clear and obvious information 
on how to obtain the official POVLAB.

The user is encouraged to send enhancements and bug fixes to the POVLAB Authors, 
but the authors are in no way required to utilize these enhancements or fixes. By 
sending material to the authors, the contributor asserts that he owns the materials 
or has the right to distribute these materials. He Authorsizes the Authors to use 
the materials any way they like. The contributor still retains rights to the 
donated material, but by donating, grants unrestricted, irrevocable usage and 
distribution rights to the POVLAB Authors. The Authors doesn't have to use the 
material, but if we do, you do not acquire any rights related to POVLAB. The 
authors will give you credit as the creator of new code if applicable.

Include a copy of this document (LEGAL.TXT).




CONDITIONS FOR COMMERCIAL BUNDLING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Vendors wishing to bundle POVLAB with commercial software (including shareware) 
or other distribution not already described above must first obtain explicit 
permission from the POVLAB Authors. Such permission is rarely granted. The POVLAB 
Authors will decide if such distribution will be allowed on a case-by-case basis 
and may impose certain restrictions as it sees fit. The minimum terms are given 
below. Other conditions may be imposed.

The product must be an existing product that has proven itself as commercially 
viable without POVLAB included.

The inclusion of POVLAB should be promoted only as a free bonus and not as a 
feature designed to encourage customers to purchase or upgrade solely for the 
POVLAB capability.

Purchasers of your product must not be led to believe that they are paying for 
POVLAB. Any mention of the POVLAB bundle on the box, in advertising or in 
instruction manuals must be clearly marked with a disclaimer that POVLAB is free 
software and can be obtained for free or nominal cost from various sources.

Include clear and obvious information on how to obtain the official POVLAB.

You must provide all POVLAB support for all users who acquired POVLAB through 
your product. The POVLAB Authors is not obligated to provide you or your 
customers any technical support.

Include a credit page or pages in your documentation for POVLAB.

If you modify any portion POVLAB for use with your hardware or software, you 
must follow the custom version rules in addition to these rules.

Include contact and support information for your product.

Include a full user package as described above.

Include the POVLAB internet site (http://www.povlab.org).




POVLAB AUTHORS ENDORSEMENT PROHIBITIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

On rare occasions, the POVLAB Authors endorses distributions in which
POVLAB Authors members are compensated participants and which the POVLAB
has given approval.

Without specific approval, distributors (whether free or
commercial) must not claim or imply in any way that the POVLAB Authors
officially endorses or supports the distributor or the product
(such as CD, book, or magazine) associated with the distribution.

You may not claim or imply that the POVLAB Authors derives any benefit
from your distribution.

If you wish to emphasize that your distribution is legal, you may use this 
language "This distribution of the official version of POVLAB is permitted under 
the terms of the General License in the file LEGAL.TXT. The POVLAB Authors does 
not endorse the distributor or its products. The POVLAB Authors receives no 
compensation for this distribution."




RETAIL VALUE OF THIS SOFTWARE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Although POVLAB is, when distributed within the terms of this agreement, free of 
charge, the retail value (or price) of this program is determined as US$20.00 
per copy distributed or copied. If the software is distributed or copied without 
Authorization you are legally liable to this debt to the copyright holder or any 
other person or organization delegated by the copyright holder for the 
collection of this debt, and you agree that you are legally bound by the above 
and will pay this debt within 30 days of the event.

However, none of the above paragraph constitutes permission for you to 
distribute this software outside of the terms of this agreement. In particular, 
the conditions and debt mentioned above (whether paid or unpaid) do not allow 
you to avoid statutory damages or other legal penalties and does not constitute 
any agreement that would allow you to avoid such other legal remedies as are 
available to the copyright holder.

Put simply, POVLAB is only free if you comply with the distribution conditions. 
It is not free otherwise. The copyright holder of this software chooses to give 
it away free under these and only these conditions.

For the purpose of copyright regulations, the retail value of this software is 
US$20.00 per copy.




OTHER PROVISIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The authors permits and encourages the creation of programs, including 
commercial packages, which import, export or translate files in the POVLAB Scene 
Description Language. There are no restrictions on use of the language itself. 
We reserve the right to add or remove or change any part of the language.

"POVLAB", is a trademarks of the POVLAB Authors.

Provided that you make it clear that the program is not the work of the POVLAB 
authors nor endorsed by us.




REVOCATION OF LICENSE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

VIOLATION OF THIS LICENSE IS A VIOLATION OF COPYRIGHT LAWS. IT WILL RESULT IN 
REVOCATION OF ALL DISTRIBUTION PRIVILEGES AND MAY RESULT IN CIVIL OR CRIMINAL 
PENALTY.

Such violators who are prohibited from distribution will be identified in this 
document.



USING POVLAB 3D MODELLER
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

We sincerely hope you have fun with POVLAB. If you have any problems with the 
program, the authors would like to hear about them. Also, if you have any 
comments, questions or enhancements, please contact the authors on 
http://www.povlab.org. The USENET group comp.graphics.rendering.raytracing as 
well as NEWS.POVRAY.ORG are a great source of information on POVLAB and related 
topics.

License inquiries should be made via email and limited technical support is 
available via email to:

Denis Olivier, POVLAB Primary author and coordinator.
(Internet: support@povlab.org).

We do not provide technical support via regular mail, only email. We don't care 
if you don't have a modem or online access. We will not mail you disks with 
updated versions. Do not send money.

The other Authors' contact information may be found in the
documentation, souces or POVLAB internet site.

