.TH uglMesaCreateNewContext "3" "AOUT 2001" "WindML/Mesa" "WRS"

.SH NAME
uglMesaCreateNewContext \- Create a simple WindML/Mesa rendering context

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <GL/uglmesa.h>
.PP
.BI "UGL_MESA_CONTEXT uglMesaCreateNewContext(GLenum " mode ", UGL_MESA_CONTEXT " share_list );

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBuglMesaCreateNewContext\fR function creates a WindML/Mesa
rendering context. The attributes needed are a buffer mode
\fImode\fR and a context sharelist \fIshare_list\fR.
.PP
It's necessary to first call this function before using
\fBuglMakeCurrentContext\fR. This function provides neither stencil
nor accumulation buffer only a depth buffer to reduce memory
footprint.

.SH INPUT
\fImode\fR - can takes the following mask values:
      UGL_MESA_SINGLE = single buffer mode

      UGL_MESA_DOUBLE = double buffer mode, first tries hardware mode and then software mode
      UGL_MESA_DOUBLE_SOFTWARE = double buffer software, fails if impossible
      UGL_MESA_DOUBLE_HARDWARE = double buffer hardware, fails if impossible

      UGL_MESA_WINDML_EXCLUSIVE = uses only WindML calls to write into the memory screen
.PP
For example, uglMesaCreateNewContext(UGL_MESA_SINGLE | UGL_MESA_WINDML_EXCLUSIVE) will use a single buffer and will only write into the screen memory with WindML calls. UGL_MESA_DOUBLE_SOFTWARE will be replaced by UGL_MESA_DOUBLE in WindML mode. There is no sense to use single and double buffer at the same time.
.PP
\fIshare_list\fR - specifies another UGL_MESA_CONTEXT with which to share
display lists. NULL indicates no sharing.

.SH RETURN VALUES
a UGL_MESA_CONTEXT, or zero if error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uglMesaCreateNewContextExt "(3), " uglMesaMakeCurrentContext "(3)"

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 Wind River Systems, Inc.
