.TH uglMesaMakeCurrentContext "3" "AOUT 2001" "WindML/Mesa" "WRS"

.SH NAME
uglMesaMakeCurrentContext \- Bind an UGL_MESA_CONTEXT to an image buffer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <GL/uglmesa.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "GLboolean uglMesaMakeCurrentContext (UGL_MESA_CONTEXT " umc ,
.BI "                                     GLsizei " left ", GLsizei " top ,
.BI "                                     GLsizei " width ", GLsizei " height );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBuglMesaMakeCurrentContext\fR binds an UGL_MESA_CONTEXT to an
image buffer. The image buffer is just a block of memory which the
client provides.  Its size must be at least as large as
width*height*sizeof(type).  Its address should be a multiple of 4 if
using RGBA mode.
.PP 
Image data is stored in the order of glDrawPixels: row-major order
with the lower-left image pixel stored in the first array position
(ie. bottom-to-top).
.PP
Since the only type initially supported is GL_UNSIGNED_BYTE, if the
context is in RGBA mode, each pixel will be stored as a 4-byte RGBA
value.  If the context is in color indexed mode, each pixel will be
stored as a 1-byte value.
.PP
If the context's viewport hasn't been initialized yet, it will now be
initialized to (0, 0, width, height).

.SH INPUT
\fIumc\fR - a rendering context
.PP
\fIleft, top\fR - coordinates in pixels of (left,top) pixel (0,0) in
fullscreen mode.
.PP
\fIwidth, height\fR - size of image buffer in pixels, at least 1 else fullscreen dimensions are used (UGL_MESA_DISPLAY_WIDTH and UGL_MESA_DISPLAY_HEIGHT).

.SH RETURN VALUES
GL_TRUE if success, GL_FALSE if error because of invalid \fIumc\fR, \fIwidth\fR<1, \fIheight\fR<1, \fIwidth\fR>internal limit or \fIheight\fR>internal limit.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uglMesaCreateNewContext "(3), " uglMesaCreateNewContextExt "(3)"

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 Wind River Systems, Inc.
