.TH uglMesaCreateNewContextExt "3" "AOUT 2001" "WindML/Mesa" "WRS"

.SH NAME
uglMesaCreateNewContextExt \- Create a WindML/Mesa rendering context

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <GL/uglmesa.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "UGL_MESA_CONTEXT uglMesaCreateNewContextExt ("
.BI "                 GLenum " mode ,
.BI "                 GLint " depth_bits ,
.BI "                 GLint " stencil_bits ,
.BI "                 GLint " accum_red_bits ,
.BI "                 GLint " accum_green_bits ,
.BI "                 GLint " accum_blue_bits ,
.BI "                 GLint " accum_alpha_bits ,
.BI "                 UGL_MESA_CONTEXT " share_list );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBuglMesaCreateNewContextExt\fR function creates a WindML/Mesa
rendering context and specifies desired size of depth buffer, stencil
buffer and accumulation buffer.
.PP
If you specify zero for \fIdepth_bits\fR, \fIstencil_bits\fR,
\fIaccum_[red|gren|blue]_bits\fR, you can save some memory.

.SH INPUT
\fImode\fR - can takes the following mask values:
      UGL_MESA_SINGLE = single buffer mode

      UGL_MESA_DOUBLE = double buffer mode, first tries hardware mode and then software mode
      UGL_MESA_DOUBLE_SOFTWARE = double buffer software, fails if impossible
      UGL_MESA_DOUBLE_HARDWARE = double buffer hardware, fails if impossible

      UGL_MESA_WINDML_EXCLUSIVE = uses only WindML calls to write into the memory screen
.PP
For example, uglMesaCreateNewContext(UGL_MESA_SINGLE | UGL_MESA_WINDML_EXCLUSIVE) will use a single buffer and will only write into the screen memory with WindML calls. UGL_MESA_DOUBLE_SOFTWARE will be replaced by UGL_MESA_DOUBLE in WindML mode. There is no sense to use single and double buffer at the same time.
.PP
\fIdepth_bits\fR - depth buffer size
.PP
\fIstencil_bits\fR - stencil buffer size
.PP
\fIaccum_red_bits\fR - accumulation red buffer size
.PP
\fIaccum_green_bits\fR - accumulation green buffer size
.PP
\fIaccum_blue_bits\fR - accumulation blue buffer size
.PP
\fIaccum_alpha_bits\fR - accumulation alpha buffer size
.PP
\fIshare_list\fR - specifies another UGL_MESA_CONTEXT with which to share
display lists. NULL indicates no sharing.

.SH RETURN VALUES
a UGL_MESA_CONTEXT, or zero if error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uglMesaCreateNewContext "(3), " uglMesaMakeCurrentContext "(3)"

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 Wind River Systems, Inc.

